# pandas-challenge

In this assignment, you’ll create and manipulate Pandas DataFrames to analyze school and standardized test data.
Instructions
Using Pandas and Jupyter Notebook, create a report that includes the following data. Your report must include a written description of at least two observable trends based on the data.
Hint: Check out the sample solution called PyCitySchools_starter.ipynb located in the .zip file to review the desired format for this assignment.

**District Summary**
Perform the necessary calculations and then create a high-level snapshot of the district's key metrics in a DataFrame.

**Include the following:**
-Total number of unique schools
-Total students
-Total budget
-Average math score
-Average reading score
-% passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
-% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

**School Summary**
Perform the necessary calculations and then create a DataFrame that summarizes key metrics about each school.

Include the following:
-School name
-School type
-Total students
-Total school budget
-Per student budget
-Average math score
-Average reading score
-% passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
-% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

**Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)**
-Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in descending order and display the top 5 rows.
-Save the results in a DataFrame called "top_schools".

**Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)**
-Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in ascending order and display the top 5 rows.
-Save the results in a DataFrame called "bottom_schools".

**Math Scores by Grade**
Perform the necessary calculations to create a DataFrame that lists the average math score for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.

**Reading Scores by Grade**
Create a DataFrame that lists the average reading score for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.

**Scores by School Spending**
-Create a table that breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges (per student).
-Use pd.cut to categorize spending based on the bins.
Include the following metrics in the table:
-Average math score
-Average reading score
-% passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
-% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

**Scores by School Size**
Create a DataFrame called size_summary that breaks down school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).

**Scores by School Type**
-Use the per_school_summary DataFrame from the previous step to create a new DataFrame called type_summary.
-This new DataFrame should show school performance based on the "School Type".

**Written Report**
----------------------------------
Analysis Summary:
Analyzing the entirety of the district, there were a total of 39,170 high school students whose scores were analyzed to determine average math and reading scores as well as the percentages of students who passed math and reading subjects. Of the 39,170 students averages are as follows:

Average Math Score - 78.985371	
Average Reading Score - 81.87784
% Passing Math	- 74.980853
% Passing Reading	- 85.805463
% Overall Passing - 65.172326
----------------------------------
Analyzing the district scoring averages as well as the district spending on a per school basis,a total of 15 high schools were analyzed to determine average math and reading scores as well as varying amounts of data on school spending. Analysis was done to dermine the highest and lowest peforming schools by percentages of overall passsing rate. The highest and lowest preforming schools are as follows:

Highest preforming schools:

Cabrera High School
Thomas High School
Griffin High School
Wilson High School
Pena High School
Lowest preforming schools:

Rodriguez High School
Figueroa High School
Huang High School
Hernandez High School
Johnson High School

Conclusions/Comparisons:
Charter schools has a significantly higher overall passing rate(90.43%) compared with the overall passing rate of the district schools(53.67%)
There was no positive correlation between school spending buckets on a per student basis and average scores as well as overall passing rate. The schools in the lowest spending bucket per student basis(<$585) actually had the highest overall passing averages for math and reading.

**Reference:**
- Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
- Chatgpt used to improve logic, error correction and generate sections of code.
- Google to get syntax for adapting to my code.
